
I am applying for computer science because I have a keen interest in computers and how they work as well as controlling them with software. I also have been wanting to study computer science at university ever since I have starting studying the subject due to its complexity and

Have been interested in computers ever since I was young and our family had their first desktop PC. At first I just saw it as a box that did things like browsing the internet and editing documents but after a while I started to realise that I could then install programs on the machine itself. From here I then realised that I could personalise my to be more how I wanted it with certain programs and software that I would use. After this I got my first laptop and from here my interest only grew as I started investigating all of the hidden folders and settings with windows to see what they could all do. Past this point I then became interested in creating my own software so that I could tell the computer what to do beyond these applications that I could install. From here I then became interested in programming so that I could control the computer and started learning JavaScript and python whilst also looking into c++ for some time. I then started using Linux and learning all about how it works and what fundamentally powers computers deep down and high up throughout a whole operating system, 

I believe that I am suitable for a computer science course due to the fact that I wish to extend the knowledge that I have on this subject area with more in depth information about it. Furthermore I also want to gain certain skills that will be used in the industry and real life applications rather than just the theoretical knowledge.

Throughout my education I have been studying courses related to computer science with the intention that this would lead up to learning computer science in university. At the moment I am completing an extended diploma in IT with A-Level maths on the side. Previously in secondary school I learned computing at the first available opportunity. 

