1st assignment theory based
2nd build your own website


you need to show some sort of coding 
NOT 1&1 / WORPRESS


SWBAT
Understand the web architecture and components 
web architecture 
	you can create your own diagram
	OR you can find one on the internet
		HAVE THE REFERENCE
		how it all works, a detailed image
	video sharing
	blogs
	RSS feed
	Picture sharing

	Everything is about interaction 
		You can do everything, everyone knows

Task for Today
Explain web architecture 
	Internet service provider
	Web hosting service
	Domain structure
	Domain name registrar
	World Wide web
Components
	Hardware  : web, mail, proxy server, routers
	Software: browser, email
	Protocol: TCP/IP, application layers e.g. HTTP,SMTP

Internet service provider.
The internet service provider is the person that actually connects your house and therefore all the devices in your house to the internet and other computers / servers. This will normally be a large company like Virgin media, BT, Sky...etc. They will provide you the service to connect to the internet by leasing you a line that will connect to the router in your house and allow you to connect to the internet. They normally do this by laying down cables in the ground or on pylons, these cables used to be coaxial cables that use copper wires but in more recent times more ISP's are using fibre optic cables to connect up houses due to the faster connection that they allow. These companies are also responsive for handing out and handling the IP addresses that actually allow your computer to be found on the internet and servers to connect to you. 

Web hosting service
The web hosting service is the company that actually hosts the website that you have created and own the hardware that it will be running on as well as the network that will allow access to it. You pay this company money and they will host a website that you provide to them. Some examples of these are 1&1, 123.reg and GoDaddy. 

Domain Structure 
The Domain structure is the way that websites actually organise the access that users have to the site as well as how access is handled to the sub sites of the main sites. The format of this is done by the addition of "." dots to denote the sub websites. For example Google, has the main website at Google.com while they have a sub website at translate.google.com for their translation service. This is Google domain as it separated by dots and so it the same domain name. 

Domain name registrar
the Domain name registrar is the way that the name of the websites are actually  mapped to the IP address that the server has. This will mean that the users will just need to type the name of the website rather then the IP address in order to gain access to its contents. This is good as it is easier to remember. 

World Wide Web
The world wide web is the way that all the computers and it is how all computers are actually connected. This defines as well how all commuter will connect to each other in terms of the way that the nodes are define.   

rss feed 
social networking 
Web 2.0?
was interaction....now its different
now you can actually do things and interact with the website
discuss current method of information sharing
	Web 2.0
	blog
	cloud computing
	online application

web 2.0 is the change that happened in the world wide web that moved the focus from pre-set information that the users read to information that the users generate for the website as will as having the websites easier to use. This is not actually the proper term at instead there is a 


DUE 26 JANUARY!!!!
all theory
(assignment go through)
give you a picture or create your own 
 P1 - explaining the things 
 	proxy server
	browser
	email SERVER
	how all these things are connected and how communication happens
	how you communicate to the internet
	There is a lot of flow diagram available
	YOU MUST EXPLAIN WHAT IS HAPPENING IN THE IMAGE
	email you first presesntation

M1 - explain communication?????
	web2.0
	blog
	on-line application

D1 - create a report or poster
	TCP/IP and how it actually works 
	detail if TCO / IP AND HOW IT IS LINKED TO THE APPLICATION LAYER
	what the application layer actually does

P2 - describe server and client 
	how client and server effect the speed and the usability of the experience
		Download speed
		pc performance
		processor.... and so on
		just explain how they all have an effect 
		if you are a user of a website you need
		user side factors
			Information
				easy to find 
				good interject
				easy to use
				good colour scheme
					for children have colours
				good connection
				actually fit for purpose

	servier side
		file types
			jpg
			no  large pictures for ease of download
			3-4 seconds is all you get to keep customer
		web server capacity 
			how many users it can support
			Amazon
				can support millions
				high web server capcasity
			available bandwidth
				how many it can support and so on
			website tells you that there are many people using it
				DOS ???

P3 - security risk, will go through tomorrow
