Unit 30 -  Graphics

Know the software and hardware required for photography
types of file formats
be able to use the software 

2 Assignments 

Hardware 
Graphics card
RAM
Hard drive
power supply
keyboard
mouse
cable/adaptor
case
monitor
more cables
graphics table?
processor
printer
card reader

5 hardware required and reasons
1. Graphics tablet
helps the user use more defined and precise movements that feel more natural for writing while editing photographs

2. RAM
Thighs holds the users running programs and allows for more to do done at the same time. With more RAM the user will be able to have more functions b being done to an image or the ability to hold larger files (pictures) with ease. 

3. Hard drive
With a larger hard drive the user will be able to store large images and more of them in addition to this, the user will also be able the 

Output medium
	how you can see your graphics product
	printer
		inkjet
		colour laser
	computer monitor
	other....mobile phone..

Graphics software
vector
	graphs equations so that the quality is preserved at extreme zooms. 
	example: co-ordinates
	Auto CAD
raster
	maps the colours for each pixel so you have a map of bits. 
	raster graphics
	ms paint


vector and raster software, what ones are available, key differences?
what graphics editing software exists

Inkscape software uses vector graphics and Ms paint uses raster options. 
The main difference between these is that inkscape store the equation of the line and the items that are being drawn. This is a positive as it means that the image that is created at the end has the ability to be zoomed in and moved around a lot yet it will still keep its original quality throughout the process. On the other hand the file size when using this type of image can get quite large and the software that it uses is far more complicated in most cases. 
On the other hand the alternate type of image format is raster. This works by storing an array or a grid of all the colour information for each pixel. This is great as it means that the actual image file is quite small and it can very easily be compressed so that it is even smaller and that it is also very easy for downloading the image through a slow connection or where the size of the download is limited. In addition to this, in most places the software that is used for raster images is a lot easier to use and as such it is more friendly to beginners. However, on the other hand the software that mainly uses raster images can be a lot simpler and as such not have the same functionality. 









5 or 6 different pictures edited
explain how to do the basic
creating a file
menu
opening existing
closing a file
explain how to superimpose one thing from another
show OG picture
copy
paste
blending image
superimpose the picture
use clone stamp
makring rough guidelines and all the tools mentioned

5 pictures!!!
must to of good quality
show all the tools
before, after and a few in-between









D part final assignment
how file format and quality actually work
	show with images and example in real life

file
save as
save as for web
2up?
shows jpg, GIF.....and so on
	show how this actually effect the quality of the image. 
this also shows the colour depth 
YOU MUST SHOW THESE EXAMPLES


Plixlr save as web, its similar
SHOW AND EXPLAIN HOW YOU HAVE CHANGED IT
