Principles of game design
	Visual style of the game
		terrain architecture object characters
		interface
		FMV
	gameplay keywords
		interaction model
			avatar SP MP omnipresence
		narrative
			game setting
		rules
			mechanics of the game
			score

game controls
	mouse
	keyboard
	joystick
	illustrations
	
visual style
	very interactive
		user friendly
			easy to choose things
	clear description of the interface

characters of the gameplay
	e.g. midtown madness
		shows different characters
			NPC's
			you can only control one of the cars
			at the start all of the NPC's are arranged in a particular way
			tell you your position and a map

rules of the gameplay 
	don't run people over
	
Terrain of the game
	structures in the background  
	
element of gameplay
	player


















Unit 40 Assignment 1	

Introduction
in this assignment I will be going through the initial stages of games development and design. These stages mainly cover the stage of analysis and idea generation from other games as well as research into different game concepts that take effect in all games.
 
P1 - Describe visual style and elements of gameplay used in game design with some appropriate use of subject terminology

In this section I will be going through 3 different games and analysing different aspects of these games in order to gather information about how I could create my own game and the fundamental aspects that I would need to include in order to make it a successful game. For this section I will e going though a whole range of different aspects from gameplay to goals and scoring and the environment. I will also be analysing 3 games and these are Ikaruga, Mini Metro and Fallout 4 as these three games are all from different genres and they all have completely different styles and game mechanics. The sections will hen be split into two section one of gameplay and one on visual style.  

Ikaruga 

Interaction model

Within all games there is a requirement for a certain level of user interaction in order for the game to be a game and not a film. In Ikaruga, the method interaction for the game is the players ability to control a ship throughout the game and this ship is called the Ikaruga and this is where the name for the game comes from. However, there is also an option in the menu of the game to control another ship called the ginkei however this is seen as the second player ship and as such it is not the default ship and has not as much use. 

Although you get the ability to control the ship through out the game there are still a only a few different ways in which you can interact with the ship in order to actually control it. The interactions that you are limited to are the ability to: move up, down, left and right as well as the ability to shoot, release power and change polarity (the last few points will be explained in a later section)

One final and interesting thing to note is that although the game uses 3D models and environments the player can only control the Ikaruga/ginkei in only 2 dimensions and the 3rd dimension is only used for moving during cutscenes.  

Single player / multiplayer

Ikaruga is primarily a multiplayer co-operative game in its first iteration, however as it developed it merged into a more single player experience due to how computers existed from the 90's to now. 

When Ikaruga was initially created it was designed as an arcade cabinet for arcades in Japan and at that time co-operative arcade shooters were the norm and as such Ikaruga was designed around that to fit into peoples expectations. This arcade box was designed for two players by having two sets of controls, one for each player and each player would be able to control their respective ship of either the Ikaruga or the ginkei and both players would be playing on the same play field and would both be in the same game. After the game was created for the Japanese arcades the game was then released for the Dreamcast home console and this is where the majority of its popularity came from and where most people will remember it form. This was an almost exact port of the original game however due to the fact that it was on home consoles the game was therefore player in a more single player format. The singleplayer experience is not that much different from the multiplayer one apart from the fact that you will only have one ship to fight the enemies but there is no adjustment to the difficulty level. From this lack of adjustment in difficulty the game became renowned for its difficulty among its fans. 

Game setting

Throughout the game there are quite a few different settings that the player will go though in order to progress through the game. Due to the fact that the game is very linear in its style as you can only go through the path that the game defines and you cannot change that fact. This therefore means that the is  slightly different for each level but it will always be the same kind of different and so playing through the game again will lead to the exact same setting. In general the setting of this game is a futuristic world with grand buildings and a high level of technology, however throughout the landscape and scenery of this game there are also signs of nature with forests and lakes seen occasionally throughout. This game is set in a future japan and these buildings that can be seen are part of the dictator ship that has fallen upon the land and that is why they are grand in size and are very mech like in terms of appearance.  

Goals

For the game to be playable and have progression there is a requirement for there to be a goal or objective that the player works towards and can have the ability to complete in order to progress through the game. For this section I will be explaining this in two sections, the goal in terms of the story line and the goal in terms of the gameplay and what the player has to do. The story goal is that the main antagonist of the game discovered an ancient artefact of infinite power and has used this godly power to enslave and rule over the land. The main protagonist of the game was working as a fighter against the antagonist but was shot down due to their power and he crashed in a village. From here the people of the village (one of whom was a genius inventor) created a fighter ship that could match the power of the antagonist and free them from their situation. The game then revolves around the main character going up against and defeating the antagonist and his array of weapons and minions at his disposal, as you progress through the game to nearer to the antagonist the enemies get harder until you defat him and destroy the artefact that gave him the power. 

In terms of the actual gameplay for this user and ignoring the story the goal of the game can be split into a few different goals of varying necessity. The main goal of the game is to get the highest score by the end of the game. Points for the score are earned by killing enemies and defeating bosses, in addition to this points are also earned through defeating 3 enemies of the same colour or polarity in a row over and over again. Furthermore, additional points can be earned by killing enemies of the same colour as you are as they are then 2 times more difficult to kill. With the points bing the main objective and goal there are then a few other small goals that cam be done in order to make that main goal happen faster / more efficiently. For example, to get a high score that layer must keep their ship alive and not be killed as this will result in the player losing points and mission out on opportunities for more points as they can't kill enemies whilst they are dead.  With the not being killed part there is therefore the fact that you should complete every level and not dying is the main part of that. Finally, there is also the fact that in order to get the most points you will need to defeat all the enemies that you came across and due to the fact that this game is a bullet hell shooter and that there are many enemies on screen at the same time with bullets everywhere that can turn out to be quite difficult.  

Challenges

Games will need to have challenge in them if they are to have some repeatability and thinking involved in the game or otherwise the player would get board from the game and will not continue playing. In Ikaruga the challenge level of the game is very, very high and it is also not varied as the challenge is the same throughout the whole of the game. As mentioned previously the challenge from this game comes from that fact that it is designed for two players but normally only played by one. However, that is not the main reason for the challenge. The main challenge for this game comes from the type of game this it is and how it fits into Japanese culture. The game is what is best described as a bullet hell shooter, this is a game where there are hundreds of bullets or projectiles on the screen that the player must avoid in order to not die as if the player touches one then they will die. In Japanese culture there is a desire for games to be designed around the idea of perfection as that is an integral part of the culture and expectations of people, due to this a lot of the game in japan are renowned for their difficulty and their ability to be perfected is rewarded highly, this therefore creates the challenges and difficulty seen in the game. 
The actual difficulty comes in the form of dodging bullets shot by enemies and the over whelming amount that may be on the screen at any time. This, coupled with the fact that the bullets all have patterns that you can learn create the challenge that drives people to play the game more and get better at it. Finally there are also bosses at the end of each level and these bosses present their own challenges as they are exceedingly tough in terms of their health as well as the fact that they all have their own unique patterns and attack strategies for the player to navigate. Beating the bosses is seen as quite a challenge due to these points. 

Rewards

In many games the player can gain rewards if they manage to complete certain objectives or do something that requires skill and practice, this is done so that the player will play the game longer in order to gain this reward and have a goal to reach. In addition to this games will also come with certain achievements that the they will gain once they have completed an objective or a task and these can be shown off as a proof that they have done it. 
Within Ikaruga there are no progressive rewards whilst playing through the game however there are an initial set of achievements for particular task completion and in game rewards for difficult or daring moves. There is an initial set of achievements that are available for beating each boss at the end of a level and these will always show up at the right hand side of the screen when you play through with that save file. However, these can only be unlocked once and once that has happened they cannot be unlocked again and no more rewards are given for the defeat of these bosses. Inn addition to these basic achievements there are also more complex and more difficult to get achievement that will focus on a particular play style or a score. For example there are achievements for beating each level with a perfect score of an S rank which is very difficult to get and there is also a set of achievements for the ability to complete levels without firing your weapon and so on.  
In addition to in game achievements there is also rewards that the player can use in game for completing daring or complex manoeuvres. For example in the game if you kill an enemy of your colour then they will explode and shoot a bunch of projectiles of their colour towards you and these can easily hit and kill you if you are the wrong colour. This coupled with the fact that if you kill an enemy of the same colour it takes twice as long might seem like its very easy but, you can absorb colour that are the same as you. This therefore means that when you dare to kill enemies slower you will have them give you projectiles that you can absorb and as you do this you will charge up your power and this will allow the player to release a powerful blast that can deal massive damage to all enemies on screen.  
