Emmanuel Kayode Oladipo

Nimda virus

nimda virus was a worm that infected files and allowed the access of a computer from external sources. it was released in 2001 on the 18th of September and it spread to be the biggest known computer infection of all time in just 22 minutes. The creator / s of the virus are unknown, however, in the source code for the virus it clearly states "Concept Virus(CV) V.5, Copyright(C)2001 R.P.China" so from this it is clear that it is from china. 

Nimda was so successful due to the way that it spread and how it operated once it was inside the computer. 
Nimda used 5 different methods to infect the machines that all used different exploits, these methods were:

Email attachments
network shares
websites
exploits in microsoft iss
backdoors that were left behind from previous virus attacks. 

The purpose of nimda is not known well but it is predicted that it was supposed to slowdown network traffic all over the world due to the way that it was designed to spread and the fact that it didn't seem to change a lot of files on the host computer. 

Internal / external threats 

internal threat can lead to data loss
e.g. evil staff....accident

external threat
hackers 
destruction
cyber criminals

physical threat
students stealing the physical items like PC's/hard drives

social networking threat


 phishing, SQL injection


1. Limit access privilege to the system so that not everyone has full control
2. Use firewalls
3. Use sniffing tools
4. Data encryption
5. Scan periodically 
6. Cryptography




Part 2
Encryption is a big part of the IT industry
enable the firewall
enable the bit locker for encryption
configure your audit log 


Enable firewall
	go to control panel 
	then system and security
	windows firewall
	for public and local networks

	go back to he control panel to enable bit locker
	click on bit locker
	you will see your disk drives
	it will show you if he bit locker is off 
	click the turn bit locker on button to turn on bit locker

	go t network and internet from control panel
	internet options
	security tab
	enable protected mooode

	use SSL - secure socket layer
	2 or 3

	go to the advances tab for SSL settings
	go down to you get to security 
	*allow software to run or install*
		this is BAD YOU DONT WANT THIS 
		YOU DON'T WANT ANY SOFTWARE TO RUN ON YOUR COMPUTER
		
	audits log
	keep an audit log
	will show when people try to access things in your computer 
	go back to ethe control panel
	system and security
	administrative tools
	there are a lot of things that you can do here
	local security policy
	this is where you would configure your network, security policies
	you can set up all of the policies
	you just tock the options

	object access
	you just tick the box

	Wi-Fi 
	only select WPA2*
	simple go to my computer 
	PC - this PC
	here you have network, right click on it and then properties
	change adapter setting
	double click that 
	wireless properties
	also remember to enforce network access protection
	then click OK


ASSIGNMENT 2 

 Fire wall controls traffic on your network in and out
 	 it will examine it 
	 filter not good things
	 4 types???

intrusion detections detects unauthorised access, but cant do anything
	intrusion prevention system (IPS)
	camera, cctv ~ (ID) physical
	remember IPS and IDS
	explain different types of firewall
	 
Enable SSL secure socket layer
	ssl protects when shopping
use antivirus software

Physical threat requires a physical protection 



Information protection
	bit encryption
	anti virus
	it goes beyond

	<><><><>
	Obfusication
	Steganography 
	<><><><>


Obfusication - comes from obscure
	confusing
	not very clear
	data or information is made obscured. 
	give different kinds of encryption on 


Steganography - concealing messages
	a way to hide your data 
	a way to hide information so that only people you want to can read the information 

Research how to hide data in word and excel. 

Cryptographic principles. 

In this section I will be going through how you can hide information inside of a work or an excel document so that the information cannot be read by people that who should not be able to read. 
To hide a whole sheet within excel you can do this within a few simple steps:
Select the sheet that you want to hide by clicking on its name at the bottom of the screen. 
Then on the home tab at the very top of the program you go to the cells mini table. 
From here you then choose format to format the sheet. 
Under visibility chick hide&unhide and then click hide to hide the sheet. 

This can also be done to a similar extent with word as well by a very similar method 

Write about them and give examples. 


Physical protection. 


Protected mode
sniffing tools
such as wireshark
Authentication

D1

